I grew up in Los Angeles and my parents
were both in show business I was very
active in theater and things like that
when I was in college and worked writing
jokes actually after I got out of
college but decided that I didn't want
to do that and instead went to seminary
I got involved in in church in college
through my involvement in civil rights
and anti-war things one of the things I
questioned was could a kind of ironic
person from Southern California really
be a priest in the Episcopal Church I
mean I always thought I don't see how I
would fit in this but the longer I was
in seminary and the more I saw the
various kinds of ministries that were
available the more I saw well yeah I
think I probably could do this I came to
work here in 1978 at Christ Church
Cranbrook so I was on the church staff
doing youth ministry and also I was the
chaplain at Cranbrook Kingswood schools
for three years and then when the rector
retired I decided to move back to
California and then was asked to come
back here a year ago
christchurch Cranbrook is unique of
parishes in the Episcopal Church it is a
big suburban Church in an affluent
community it has a long tradition of
caring about the city the metropolitan
area
I've got poor people about disadvantaged
people I love this place I really am
deeply committed to the vision of
Christianity - this place holds out and
I really got interested in the whole
question of Detroit and how Detroit is
rethinking itself and how people want
the church to be a player and all that a
friend of mine says that the natural
constituency of the Episcopal Church is
the educated skeptic and what I would
say in response to that is that we in
the Episcopal Church have no one typical
kind of member we have a range of
members there are as many questioning
doubters and seekers in our congregation
as there are people who have a robust
firm sense of what they do and don't
believe so I would say the average
person who goes to this church is
someone who loves stately and dignified
worship who is open to the deep
questions of faith and who is willing to
live in community with people who may be
in a different political or theological
place than themselves I believe everyone
who goes to church in the 21st century
is going there because God is doing
something in their lives they're trying
to scratch that itch that God is
provoking in them and they're trying to
understand it and live it out and I
think my role as a priest is to really
try to help people see God present in
their life and experience I think God is
active in people but because of the
distractions of contemporary life people
can't hear or see God and so I think
church is a place where we try to strip
that away and help people just pay
attention my wife Kathy told me the
other day that the Swiss psychologist
Carl Jung had a sign in his
with these words the sign read bidden or
unbidden God is present if Jesus stood
for or taught anything it was that I
think that there are people to whom God
seems to be speaking and there are other
people who seem not to be hearing that I
think also people are turning away from
religion largely because the
institutional church has lost a lot of
its credibility they see institutional
churches as characterized by a kind of
hypocrisy that clergy are getting up and
telling them to live one way and then
they themselves are living some other
way so I think part of the job of the
church in the 21st century is to live
its life with kind of integrity that
calls people into seeing it as having
some credibility I think Christchurch
Cranbrook has a lot to offer people we
are a church that does worship in a way
that's stately and formal but also
accessible we are a church that is
biblically based we're a church that
values the liberty of the individual
conscience and we're a church that
really tries to relate the gospel to the
actual flesh and blood dilemmas that
real people experience so I think what
Christchurch Cranbrook has first to
offer is a community of faith that is
made up of very warm and welcoming and
friendly human beings and also a
beautiful setting in which to do that
and a lot of resources in terms of our
educational programs for children and
teenagers and adult music program and a
tradition that values the connection
between spirituality and the are
in the church I believe people are
incorporated to the extent that they
want to be incorporated some people come
to the church and wanted us come in go
to church say their prayers and leave
and some people want to come to the
church and really have it be the center
of their lives and this place offers
that full range of things to everybody
there is a pew for each one of them and
a way for them to be who they are in
this place
you